README.md, before:

# 4th CLVision Workshop @ CVPR 2023 Challenge

This is the official starting repository for the Continual Learning Challenge held in the 4th CLVision Workshop @ CVPR 2023.

Please refer to the [**challenge website**](https://sites.google.com/view/clvision2023/challenge) for more details!

To participate in the challenge, use the link below:

https://codalab.lisn.upsaclay.fr/competitions/11559

## Getting started

The devkit is based on the [Avalanche library](https://github.com/ContinualAI/avalanche). We warmly recommend looking at the [documentation](https://avalanche.continualai.org/) (especially the ["Zero To Hero tutorials"](https://avalanche.continualai.org/from-zero-to-hero-tutorial/01_introduction)) if this is your first time using it!
Avalanche is added as a Git submodule of this repository. 

The recommended setup steps are as follows:

1. **Install [conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/download.html)** (and [mamba](https://github.com/mamba-org/mamba); recommended)

2. **Clone the repo** and **create the conda environment**:
```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/ContinualAI/clvision-challenge-2023.git
cd clvision-challenge-2023
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

3. **Start training**: you can directly start training a baseline strategy by running `python train.py`  


The aforementioned steps should be OS-agnostic. However, we recommend setting up your dev environment using a 
mainstream Linux distribution.

## Code Structure

    
    ├── avalanche                      # Avalanche library (as a submodule) 


    ├── benchmarks
        ├── ... 
        ├── cir_benchmark.py           # benchmark generator for the challenge
     
    ├── data 
        ├── ...                        # dataset train/test splits 
    
    ├── models
        ├── ...                       
        ├── resnet_18.py               # base resnet-18 architecture 
    
    ├── scenario_config
        ├── ...                        # stream config files used for benchmark generation
    
    ├── strategies
        ├── my_plugin.py               # template for implementing new plugins
        ├── my_strategy.py             # template for implementing new strategies

    ├── utils
        ├── ...                        # utility scripts 


    ├── train.py                       # trainer script 
    
## Implementing a strategy 
Put your problem-solving skills to the test and implement new strategies for class-incremental with repetition scenarios in this challenge. You have two options for implementing a new strategy:

#### Strategy as a plugin
The straightforward method to design a strategy is to implement it as a plugin. Plugins extend an existing strategy by implementing a particular set of callbacks. You can implement your plugin in `strategies/my_plugin.py`, and add it a base strategy (e.g. Naive strategy) in `train.py`.

#### Strategy as a subclass
Another way to implement your strategy is to define a class that inherits from `SupervisedTemplate` class. This method is suggested when the training epoch loops or other behaviors in a strategy are different from thed default ones defined in the `SupervisedTemplate`, and cannot be implemented by extending existing strategies via plugins.  


*For a deeper dive into the implementation of strategies, please refer to [**this link**](https://avalanche.continualai.org/from-zero-to-hero-tutorial/04_training). 

## Submitting a solution
Solutions must be submitted through the CodaLab portal:

A solution must be zip file that contains **three** prediction files generated by `train.py`. The file names must follow the pattern below:
- `pred_config_1.npy`
- `pred_config_2.npy`
- `pred_config_3.npy`

where the numbers indiciate the stream ID (config ID) on which the model is trained.

The maximum number of allowed submissions is 20. Only 3 solutions can be submitted each day.


## Hints

- The devkit may be updated when new features are requested by participants. We recommend checking if there are new updates frequently.
- The `InteractiveLogger` will just print the progress to stdout (and it is quite verbose). Consider using dashboard loggers, 
such as *Tensorboard* or *Weights & Biases*. See the tutorial on 
loggers [here](https://avalanche.continualai.org/from-zero-to-hero-tutorial/06_loggers). 
You can use more than one logger at the same time!

# IDE-specific hints

- When using **Visual Studio Code**, to get a proper type checking and smooth terminal execution, consider:
    - installing the official [Python language support](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python).
    - creating a `.env` file in the root of the project with the following content:
        ```
        PYTHONPATH=:<project_path>/avalanche:<project_path>
        ```
        where you should replace `<project_path>` with the *absolute path* of the project directory. Alas, utilities like `${workspaceFolder}` will not work here.

    - creating a `.vscode/settings.json` file. Create the `.vscode` directory and `settings.json` file if they do not exist.
    In the `settings.json` file, we recommend pasting the following content:
        ```json
        {
            "terminal.integrated.env.linux": {
                "PYTHONPATH": "${env:PYTHONPATH}:${workspaceFolder}:${workspaceFolder}/avalanche"
            },
            "python.envFile": "${workspaceFolder}/.env",
            "python.terminal.activateEnvironment": true,
            "python.analysis.typeCheckingMode": "basic",
            "python.analysis.extraPaths": [
                "avalanche"
            ],
            "python.languageServer": "Pylance"
        }
        ```
    Once you have followed these steps, close and reopen Visual Studio Code.

Commit message:

Update the RAM usage limit

README.md, after:

# 4th CLVision Workshop @ CVPR 2023 Challenge

This is the official starting repository for the Continual Learning Challenge held in the 4th CLVision Workshop @ CVPR 2023.

Please refer to the [**challenge website**](https://sites.google.com/view/clvision2023/challenge) for more details!

To participate in the challenge, use the link below:

https://codalab.lisn.upsaclay.fr/competitions/11559

## Repository Updates

<span style="color:red;">26.03: Increase the RAM usage limit from 3200 MBs -> 4000 MBs</span>

## Getting started

The devkit is based on the [Avalanche library](https://github.com/ContinualAI/avalanche). We warmly recommend looking at the [documentation](https://avalanche.continualai.org/) (especially the ["Zero To Hero tutorials"](https://avalanche.continualai.org/from-zero-to-hero-tutorial/01_introduction)) if this is your first time using it!
Avalanche is added as a Git submodule of this repository. 

The recommended setup steps are as follows:

1. **Install [conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/download.html)** (and [mamba](https://github.com/mamba-org/mamba); recommended)

2. **Clone the repo** and **create the conda environment**:
```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/ContinualAI/clvision-challenge-2023.git
cd clvision-challenge-2023
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

3. **Start training**: you can directly start training a baseline strategy by running `python train.py`  


The aforementioned steps should be OS-agnostic. However, we recommend setting up your dev environment using a 
mainstream Linux distribution.

## Code Structure

    
    ├── avalanche                      # Avalanche library (as a submodule) 


    ├── benchmarks
        ├── ... 
        ├── cir_benchmark.py           # benchmark generator for the challenge
     
    ├── data 
        ├── ...                        # dataset train/test splits 
    
    ├── models
        ├── ...                       
        ├── resnet_18.py               # base resnet-18 architecture 
    
    ├── scenario_config
        ├── ...                        # stream config files used for benchmark generation
    
    ├── strategies
        ├── my_plugin.py               # template for implementing new plugins
        ├── my_strategy.py             # template for implementing new strategies

    ├── utils
        ├── ...                        # utility scripts 


    ├── train.py                       # trainer script 
    
## Implementing a strategy 
Put your problem-solving skills to the test and implement new strategies for class-incremental with repetition scenarios in this challenge. You have two options for implementing a new strategy:

#### Strategy as a plugin
The straightforward method to design a strategy is to implement it as a plugin. Plugins extend an existing strategy by implementing a particular set of callbacks. You can implement your plugin in `strategies/my_plugin.py`, and add it a base strategy (e.g. Naive strategy) in `train.py`.

#### Strategy as a subclass
Another way to implement your strategy is to define a class that inherits from `SupervisedTemplate` class. This method is suggested when the training epoch loops or other behaviors in a strategy are different from thed default ones defined in the `SupervisedTemplate`, and cannot be implemented by extending existing strategies via plugins.  


*For a deeper dive into the implementation of strategies, please refer to [**this link**](https://avalanche.continualai.org/from-zero-to-hero-tutorial/04_training). 

## Submitting a solution
Solutions must be submitted through the CodaLab portal:

A solution must be zip file that contains **three** prediction files generated by `train.py`. The file names must follow the pattern below:
- `pred_config_1.npy`
- `pred_config_2.npy`
- `pred_config_3.npy`

where the numbers indiciate the stream ID (config ID) on which the model is trained.

The maximum number of allowed submissions is 20. Only 3 solutions can be submitted each day.


## Hints

- The devkit may be updated when new features are requested by participants. We recommend checking if there are new updates frequently.
- The `InteractiveLogger` will just print the progress to stdout (and it is quite verbose). Consider using dashboard loggers, 
such as *Tensorboard* or *Weights & Biases*. See the tutorial on 
loggers [here](https://avalanche.continualai.org/from-zero-to-hero-tutorial/06_loggers). 
You can use more than one logger at the same time!

# IDE-specific hints

- When using **Visual Studio Code**, to get a proper type checking and smooth terminal execution, consider:
    - installing the official [Python language support](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python).
    - creating a `.env` file in the root of the project with the following content:
        ```
        PYTHONPATH=:<project_path>/avalanche:<project_path>
        ```
        where you should replace `<project_path>` with the *absolute path* of the project directory. Alas, utilities like `${workspaceFolder}` will not work here.

    - creating a `.vscode/settings.json` file. Create the `.vscode` directory and `settings.json` file if they do not exist.
    In the `settings.json` file, we recommend pasting the following content:
        ```json
        {
            "terminal.integrated.env.linux": {
                "PYTHONPATH": "${env:PYTHONPATH}:${workspaceFolder}:${workspaceFolder}/avalanche"
            },
            "python.envFile": "${workspaceFolder}/.env",
            "python.terminal.activateEnvironment": true,
            "python.analysis.typeCheckingMode": "basic",
            "python.analysis.extraPaths": [
                "avalanche"
            ],
            "python.languageServer": "Pylance"
        }
        ```
    Once you have followed these steps, close and reopen Visual Studio Code.
